hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here again
bringing you another China history
podcast today we continue our overview
of the life of Deng Xiaoping and pick up
in the year 1937 if there ever was a
year from Chinese history that will
forever live on in infamy eg Osan Shinya
and 1937 that was one for the history
books in the last episode we looked at
the early formative years of thumb
shellping in this series of podcasts
focusing on the life of dung we're
looking mainly at Ezra Vogel's new
biography that came out last month we
reviewed the early years of thumb
shopping where he came from his years in
France Moscow and then back in China
surviving the long march and now in
January 1937 after the Communists have
started to set themselves up and yen on
the legend of thumb Xiao ping really
starts to gain momentum as we'll see
dunk shopping like all of China's
leaders at this time he had a lot on his
hands he is in it up to his eyeballs in
the whole war of resistance against the
Japanese we know from previous podcasts
that Joey by 9 18 September 18 1931 the
Mukden incident the infamous incident
that went down in the city of Mukden
which we know today as Shenyang this
incident was the ham-fisted pretext used
by the Japanese to invade Manchuria
which of course gave us manchu quo and
now in the year 1937 with the Marco Polo
Bridge incident on July 7th 1937 now
Japan has launched a full-scale invasion
of China into the heartland so dumb
shopping is going to be caught up in all
that as well as other things the city of
Tianjin falls on July 30th whose song
which is present-day Bao Shan is taken
on September 1st and Shanghai held out
till December and it was huge and tragic
losses during the siege of Shanghai the
Japanese then set up a blockade along
the east coast
that provided further inconvenience to
the nationalists than their capital
Nanjing has taken and we of course have
the Nanjing Massacre that takes place on
December 13th and the weeks that
followed in that sort of caps off a very
bloody and tumultuous year in China the
Nationalist government is forced to
retreat and sets up a temporary
government in the city of Chongqing far
far away from their base of power along
the eastern part of China Japanese army
then spreads itself out into Shandong
and Kanaan for the rest of 1937 1938
Wuhan fell to the Japanese on October
25th 1938 after a million Chinese
soldiers went down fighting four days
before on October 21st Guangzhou was
taken one of the only cities to hold out
repeatedly against the Japanese
onslaught was Changsha in Hunan KMT
generals Sherea and Chang Chang are
credited with that effort dung you see
although no one can say anything about
his military credentials he was always
right there when the bullets were flying
but he was really a political operator
and we'll see this in a moment okay last
time the long march had finished up
officially on October 22nd 1936 then
exactly two months later we had the Xian
incident Chiang kai-shek is kidnapped
and is more or less forced into signing
a deal with Mao to form a second United
Front
trustee Joanne Lai was given the mission
to negotiate this whole deal with
Chang's people in an April 1937 it's all
worked out and now these strange
bedfellows once again are going to eat
seafood saw to work together to push the
Japanese out of China
this whole unfortunate invasion that
happened during the summer of 1937 was
truly bad luck for John kai-shek he was
arguably well on his way to
marginalizing the communist forces so
just when he had the momentum he had the
rug pulled out from under him and then
Japan of
the Chinese are still more than six
decades later still pointing at this
time in history and shaking their fists
at Japan so only one single clear
political winner from this whole
Japanese invasion in 1937 that was of
course mild said dong and the political
and military force that he led one thing
that came about from all this was the
creation of the eighth route army the
bablu June it was headquartered in
Shaanxi east of Yemen this force carried
out regular attacks against the Japanese
causing them endless grief and hardship
and the man charged with carrying out
these attacks and to push the Japanese
eastward as far away from Yemen as
possible was the immortal one-eyed su
chuan native Leo bottom the eighth route
army had three divisions Lille was put
in charge of 129 and who was his
commissar his chief political officer
yes none other than dung Xiao ping and
these two Leo and dung mile put them
together and they worked as partners in
the Taihang mountains to put as much
heat on the Japanese as possible and
these two guys both from the province of
Sichuan they were political allies all
the way through the entirety of their
lives and it was there on the Shaanxi
side of the Taihang mountains that dung
ran his operation the lives of tens of
thousands of ordinary people who eked
out in existence in that area we're all
part of dongs responsibility he had to
win their trust get them on his side and
recruit as many as possible and
administer and mobilized the whole area
and all the while of course evade the
Japanese and try to stay alive dung had
learned some hard lessons from his
guanxi failures he was a wiser more
experienced man this time in this
relationship in the hundred and twenty
ninth don was the first party secretary
in lille was the second party secretary
so the way it works with the communists
even though leo had the superior
military rank he was still below done
but regardless of who works for who
done she'll pay and mill bla Chang
worked seamlessly as one done the party
man facilitator organizer negotiator not
only managing day-to-day tasks and
making decisions on the fly but
carefully laying the foundation for an
entire country that he knew was sooner
rather than later gonna be under CCP
control and yo watch hyung although
maybe not as famous a character from
modern Chinese history he nonetheless
was a legendary military commander in a
tireless revolutionary and like dong
zhuo and Leo Shao Qi lianbao changyi and
others Leo bo-chun had thrown his lot in
with Mao early he was one of the many
great leaders and generals who Mao
surrounded himself with and he was very
effective as a military man and by the
way one last Leo watch hung fun fact
when Mao stood on the podium a National
Liberation Day October 1st 1949 it was
Leo watch hyung who stood next to mouth
when that iconic moment in history took
place so take my word for it
a very big guy he was one of the ten
marshals the ten biggest military men
from the generation that defeated the
Nationalists and battled to establish
the PRC besides the oboe Chun you had of
course
panco by truth olympia niranjan : Changi
Laurent WAN
Shu Xiang Chen and the man who plays a
huge role later on in the life of Tong
Xiao ping
marshal yet Yin Yin this was mouths 18
those 10 guys done had to make regular
trips in between the Taihang mountains
region and the headquarters in yen ah he
made several perilous trips back and
forth and I'm one of these trips
visiting the headquarters done married
his third wife and this was the saintly
Jordan this was a 58 year partnership I
mean it was more than just a marriage
she was the mother to all of dongs five
children and theirs was a legendary
marriage within the CCP leadership 12 in
of course she's gonna
becoming in and out of our story as we
trace the life of Deng Xiaoping she came
from Yunnan province and her father had
made a fortune in the yunnan ham
business Yunnan is famous for these
shinwa hams anyway he was later killed
during land reform but draw lien and her
sisters they all attended universities
and were educated and sufficiently
radicalized whereby they became early
sympathizers and later members of the
Communist Party jor lin was 12 years
younger than done they had a lovely
marriage I don't know who officiated Mao
I guess it took place in front of miles
cave in Jana and present at the wedding
ceremony where Joanne ly Leo Xiao Qi Li
futon and of course Mao and others they
built an amazing family but you'll see
dung keeps them completely out of the
political arena and they are always his
source of Solace to come home to after a
day of enduring this glorious burden
that he carried every day of his life
done and Yolo Chong as I said really
made things hard for the Japanese in
central China but still mouths KMT
cousins were still moaning about the
magnitude of their contribution to the
war effort versus that of the Red Army
so as a result we have the hundreds
regiments campaign the by Tuan John this
all fell under the military leadership
of punga white from August 20th to
September 10th 1940 they hit the
Japanese hard just blowing up whatever
infrastructure they could roads railway
bridges mines whatever wherever when the
damaged Hong's troops and artillery
caused was considerable in fact it was
so considerable and so successfully had
they dealt the Japanese war effort a
crippling blow that between October and
December 1940 the infamous three all's
policy was carried out the Sun Kwang
Johnson Japan's general Okamura yasugi
led this effort and to put it succinctly
it was a real nasty scorched earth
policy Japan just took the gloves off
and went
massive rampage and inflicted a horrible
amount of suffering and all the Chinese
in and around the poorer provinces of
Shanxi Shaanxi hub a Shandong and parts
of Inner Mongolia it was simply brutal
so it was a cold brutal winter between
1940 and 1941 the three all's by the way
where kill all burn all and loot all the
officers just said to the troops do
whatever you want to do no-holds-barred
and the Japanese soldiers they were
always getting harassed by Chinese
guerilla fighters so they were always in
a boil about something and were quick to
seek retribution January 1941 the new
Fourth Army incident happens there's two
versions of what happened the Communists
and the Nationalists version but suffice
to say by this time the phony
cooperation that had been in place since
the Xian incident was all cast aside and
from here on out and especially after
Japan's defeat in 1945 its all-out
fisticuffs between the forces led by
Chiang kai-shek and by Mao Zedong by the
time of Japan's defeat in the summer of
1945 done was in the highest layer of
leadership in the CCP the area where
tongue held sway after the war covered a
few hundred million people this was in
and around ho Beijing XI Shan dong and
her none this was done shoppings
territory and he did superbly winning
over the hearts and minds of the locals
wherever they went
the next major milestone in tongues life
was perhaps July 1947 when he and his
partner all these years yo boss hung
they were sent south by Mao to the davia
mountain area sort of where turn on and
who based sort of come together it's a
nice sized little mountain range in the
central plain of China
if Tong and Leo could establish a
foothold in these mountains
it would then offer them the ultimate
vantage point looking over the plains
and could also serve as the perfect base
of operations from which to
invade the Yangtze River regions as
history records this plan turned out to
be an utter disaster at first and
nothing went according to plan and they
underestimated that terrain as well as
the ferocity of the nationalist forces
so long story short it turned into one
of those forced retreats and dung and
nil both of these guys actually led much
of the march to safety on foot
themselves and as the story goes
inspired their men with whatever was
necessary
so what could have been an utter and
complete disaster was averted by the
quick thinking and leadership of done
shall peeing and you'll watch honey they
did come to occupy the doppio mountains
in the end and thanks to dung and mill
pulling through in the clutch it gave
the communist army a little bit of a
breather now instead of throwing
everything he had at the Communists in
the north now
Chung had to divert resources to go
after dung and those forces and sure
enough most critical of all the
occupation of the Tapia Mountains gave
the communist army the perfect launching
pad to carry out the white high campaign
what was the why high campaign between
the end of 1948 in the end of January
1949 there were three main military
campaigns that provided the final
knockout punches to the nationalist
armies the Nationalists were put away by
three brilliant campaigns really these
five six months really decided
everything these were the white high
campaign the white high Chagny
November 1948 to January 1949 this was
led by Leo Bloch honey
sue you and honey this essentially
busted the Yangtze River region wide
open to the communist forces when the
last battle was fought it was all over
for John the second campaign was in the
ocean September 12 1948 to November 2nd
this was the campaign led by Lin BL the
third was the ping Ching also led by Lin
PL and Leo Rome Quan and yang Chun Doong
wasn't involved in those two the white
high campaign mostly sent
in and around the strategic city of shoe
Joe which is in the southwest of
chun-soo by car it's about a half day's
journey from shoe Joe to the Shanghai
Bund so I guess you can figure this was
a rather important campaign to win the
white high campaign saw 600,000 KMT
troops square off against half a million
communist troops but the communist
troops had a major advantage they were
so damn good at organizing out in the
hinterlands they mobilized over a
million peasant workers who did a whole
multitude of laborious tasks for them
and helped to facilitate the ultimate
victory
mouths man for the campaign his eyes and
ears was of course thumb shell ping and
you know the CCP they had a committee
for everything and it was done who was
the general secretary of the general
frontline committee dung was there side
by side with Changi
when they captured Jeong Joe in October
1948 then from November 48 to January 49
the combined armies of Leo Boccioni
Chagny and tzuyu annihilated a
nationalist army of 500,000 this was one
of the greatest most ferocious land
battles of the 20th century 25
nationalist score five armies 56
divisions
destroyed all in about 66 days and as
far as the liao shun and ping jean
campaigns go if you throw those two in
also and add up all the fallen on the
nationalist side between September 48 in
January 49 you're looking at about one
and a half million soldiers
this allowed dung and everyone to cross
the Yangtze River and after taking the
Nationalists capital Nanjing on April
23rd 1949 both dong shopping and Changi
sat and junk eye shakes chair in the
presidential palace they marched into
Shanghai and fanned out into jang-soo
and judge young Beijing had already been
taken by the way later on in life dun
mentioned in some interview that on that
day when they had crossed the eunsuh
that dividing line that separate
northern China from southern China that
was one of the happiest days of his life
that was it it was all over by this
point it was just a matter of mopping up
and holding their ground and when it was
safe to come out the entire underground
communist movement in Shanghai emerged
in this built-in support network awaited
done when he entered Shanghai by this
point the United States
Jones biggest backer had turned its back
and had thrown in the towel and will
come back another day and focus on that
very complicated us-china relationship
during the 30s and 40s so Leo Bloch hung
he got to stand next to mall on
Tiananmen on that fateful day and of
course Dunn was there too but no rest
for the weary no sooner had this
momentous occasion been written into the
annals of history when Mao sent nil and
thumb down to the southwest of China
discovered the provinces of Sichuan
Yunnan cuejoe and Tibet their mission
was to pacify the area which they did by
the end of the year then happily for
done shall pain you know being a citron
guy and all he got to go home and if you
remember he left home at the age of 16
to participate in that work-study
program in France in 1920 and this was
the first time since then he was going
back to su chuan the place of his birth
he set up his base in Chongqing and
lived with his brother dong-joo ping and
his sister dong Shi and Lia a
sister-in-law and his father's fourth
wife quite a combination he was
shielding them from what was most likely
a grisly fate due to the land reform
that was now going on in the countryside
anyway stung was the top guy and Yolo
Chong was his deputy
now while the state was being set up
the government was regionalised under
military control in this period lasted
from 1949 to 1950 - there were six
official regions in China each region
had a bureau and these regional bureaus
had total autonomy after all what could
the central government do at this point
even with all the previous organization
and planning and preparation some of you
wholesale change of government so Mao
and all the game that wasn't out
fighting battles they remained in
Beijing and tried to get the government
house in order so as a temporary measure
only they split the country up into six
regions and Mao put someone he trusted
in charge of each region and who else
could be a better choice for Southwest
China than done Xiao ping and Yeol
bought Chung to full-blooded Surat Aaron
who spoke the dialect of the region they
actually mounted it like this for most
of the regions
so now dum Xiao ping is first secretary
of the Southwest Bureau his job infected
job of all six first secretaries of all
these Bureau was to carry out the
following first to pacify the area
although the Nationalists had been
soundly defeated north of the eunsuh
there were still many pockets of
resistance still in the south they had
to manage the transition from KMT run
bureaucracy and systems to the new CCP
managed systems they also had to build
the party organization recruit members
and they had to crank up the economy in
their respective areas the southwest had
been totally brought to its knees during
almost the entirety of the 20th century
up to that time
and done also had to juggle the
gargantuan tasks of establishing
security industry commerce culture
education and health I mean can you
imagine what each day was like for dung
shell paying back then right after they
had taken Chongqing and then Chengdu in
November 1949 Chiang kai-shek on
December 10th 1949 boarded a flight to
Taiwan never to return to the country
that he had so many aspirations for so
Southwest Bureau dung is in charge there
there were still a few KMT generals and
armies who had hold themselves up there
in the mountains of Yunnan westernmost
Sutra and south eastern Tibet in that
area that terrain is like Afghanistan
you could hide in that rugged terrain
forever and it's right where the Golden
Triangle is so some of these guys these
former KMT generals or warlords who were
too
and luck to flee to Taiwan they sort of
got caught up in the moment and couldn't
get out or simply decided to stay and
they inevitably got into the opium trade
and turned into these opium warlords who
control the world heroin trade for a
while and besides all this anyone
familiar with China knows most all the
minority ethnic peoples of China are
located in the southwest so on top of
all the other complications and
challenges that Dunn faced he faced the
additional special problem the other
regions didn't have to deal with in such
a concentrated way it was always tricky
to deal with all these non Han ethnic
minority people most of whom didn't
speak Mandarin had their own distinct
culture and customs it had pretty much
kept to themselves living in their
culture now here comes these guys with
all this communist propaganda and
preaching about this new system and you
know the Xiao Shu means who the minority
people going back to the Han Dynasty had
always been a little mistrustful of
these ethnic Hans always trying to get a
piece of them so thumb Xiao ping really
had his work cut out for him trying to
bring all these tribes and different
mixtures of people into the PRC fold but
you know he did it and of course the big
gimme out of all this as far as the law
by Sheng were concerned was land they
had nothing to lose and so supported the
efforts of the first and second field
armies of the Communists now they had
won and nothing will placate a peasant
more than their very own plot of land
until Dunn was also ultimately in charge
of this - and let's just say that land
reform in the southwest from 49 onwards
was carried out vigorously and
enthusiastically you know basically down
at that level whoever had it good under
the old system we're ending up with
bullets in the back of their heads and
of course the appropriate amounts of
flesh had been extracted may in 1948-49
into the early fifties if you were a
landlord richer poorer if any peasants
had any scores whatsoever to side
with you this was a terrible time this
will be a podcast for later a lot of
these things we discussed today I'm just
trying to present it in the context of
dumb shellings life but we'll come back
another day to delve deeper into the
goings-on during the initial years after
liberation so land reform was carried
out and as far as this podcast was
concerned if any landlords wanted mercy
from Tong Xiao Peng they got none the
extreme southwest of China is where
you'll find Sheen son what we in the
english-speaking world know as Tibet
today Tibet is an autonomous region of
the PRC but in 1949 when dung was sent
down there to put things in order
Tibet was sort of independent and on
their own after all with everything that
was going on down in China since the
fall of the Ching dynasty the leaders in
Tibet took stock in the situation and
had it be known that they were their own
guys from now on Tibetan sovereignty
over the centuries had from time to time
been somewhat vague this is where dum
Xiao ping came in in addition to all the
tasks he had to deal with pacifying the
southwest Tibet figured prominently well
this didn't go down too well with the
new leaders of the PRC who had always
had their sights on Tibet we're not
going to get into the details today of
all the political aspects of Tibet and
this whole hot-button issue of were they
or they not part of China for the
purposes of today's podcast it's
important to know Tibet had broken away
and intended to be their own man from
here on out
although Tibet's leaders at the time
were making all this noise about Tibetan
sovereignty while they had other ideas
and he still had over a million troops
to back up what he said and these
communist soldiers were still fresh from
all the hard-won battles of the
just-completed civil war much of 1950
was spent negotiating how to deal with
the issue but one year in one week after
Mao declared the founding of the PRC the
Chinese army invaded Tibet from the east
so marching in took Tibet in 1950 and
1951 and seizing control
and quashing any organized resistance
wasn't going to be too hard
and it wasn't forces led by dung and
Yolo Chong as well as her long were able
to easily pacify the area this was like
a classic turkey shoot and the Tibetan
forces didn't stand a chance and if you
thought that Qing Dynasty was backward
the Tibetan military let's say you know
left a lot to be desired attempts were
made to negotiate but the tibetan
representatives negotiating position was
hardly a strong one and so on May 23rd
1952 the seventeen point agreement was
signed which assured Chinese sovereignty
over Tibet by 1952 was a clear case of
mission accomplished for dun shellping
taking care of a job well done even
further enhanced Duns chops within the
party and the government and once the
central government felt secure enough
they called the heads of these Bureau
back to Beijing and in July of 1952 dong
Xiao ping to Arlene and their family of
five children moved to Beijing but
before he went back he did officiate at
the opening of the Chongqing Chengdu
railway a practical engineering project
that brought a capacious amount of
convenience to the people of Sichuan in
general and to the local economies of
these two biggest cities in the province
now maybe dung himself didn't pound any
rails into the ground but it was a very
important project that like almost
everything else fair at the time was
attributed to Duns vision and practical
sense so he heads back to the capital
last time I was there the PRC was only
just formally established dong Xiao Peng
was now made a vice premier of the
government administrative council which
later morphed into the State Council he
was also named to the central financial
commission and then Minister of Finance
so in 1952 a new phase than the life of
Don shell ping had begun there was still
a whole bunch of nation-building and
whatnot to go yet but as far as
restoring China's dignity in the world
and
setting the country on a new course
thumb shopping in the 1930s and 40s
played a very significant role along
with so many others in making this
happen
so dung had proved to be good at his job
when it involved this dangerous life of
a guerrilla fighter communist organizer
always on the run you know being a
propaganda specialist during wartime he
showed he was good at his job when it
came to fighting a revolution now he and
all the leaders except the generals had
to take off their military uniforms and
put on civilian clothes and build on
what was still a very very shaky
foundation and remember when Dunn was
down in the southwest of China and in
Tibet the Korean War was raging full
blast so these are really intense roller
coaster years for China their early 50s
so now in 1952 in the midst of China's
heavy involvement in the Korean War
Tong Xiao ping is a vice premier and one
of the top leaders in China Mao Zedong
is the paramount leader of course the J
Pauline doll but he's surrounded by men
who time and again when it counted prove
their worth and their loyalty to Mao and
in the next episode we'll pick up in
1952 and maybe take dongs life up to
1965 or 1966 when the Cultural
Revolution starts and dumbs life gets
turned upside down so I hope you'll
listen next time as we trace the life of
one of China's greatest leaders going
back 4,000 years for show and so from
the China History podcast.com this is
your humblest of narrators Laszlo
Montgomery signing off from a cold and
rainy Claremont California here on the
outer edges of Los Angeles County I
think we still have a minimum of two but
perhaps maybe three more episodes before
we can complete this overview of the
life of thumb shopping so join us next
week won't you for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast
thanks for listening